docs: add dev docs on handshake and io (#5596)
aws/s2n-tls: docs/development/APPLICATION_DATA.md

# Sending and Receiving Application Data

## Low Level IO

Sending and receiving any data requires reading or writing from the network. s2n-tls offers two ways to handle IO.

### File descriptors

> Applications can set file descriptors using s2n_connection_set_fd / s2n_connection_set_read_fd / s2n_connection_set_write_fd.

Reviewer: Now I'm thinking about it, I wonder if it would be good to talk briefly about where these fds came from. This is technically outside of our library, but it is important context.

2. Quickack. s2n-tls disables delayed ACKs. See the linux documentation for "TCP_QUICKACK". This setting is temporary and will reset on its own.

3. kTLS. If an application configures s2n-tls to use kTLS, then s2n-tls will configure the socket to use kTLS. Once enabled, kTLS cannot be disabled.

See tls/s2n_socket.c for the file descriptor related logic.

### Custom callbacks

If calling `read` or `write` on a file descriptor is not sufficient, applications can use s2n_connection_set_recv_cb and s2n_connection_set_send_cb to set custom IO callbacks to implement whatever read and write logic they need. These custom callbacks replace the default callbacks set when file descriptors are configured.

Many of s2n-tls's tests take advantage of custom callbacks. For example, unit tests write to stuffers or local memory rather than to the network.

## Records

The primary unit of data in TLS is a "record". Records are composed of a header and a payload. The payload is usually encrypted, except certain messages during the TLS handshake.

When sending or receiving application data, we must read or write that data as encrypted TLS records.

## Fragmentation

> TLS records may only contain a limited amount of data. If an application wants to send a large amount of data, that data will be broken into "fragments" and each fragment will be sent in a separate record.

Author: I don't want to say words like TLSPlaintext here. But "record" refers to a fragment + header.

The maximum fragment length is defined by the TLS protocol as 2^14. s2n-tls uses a default fragment length of about 8k, which a code comment explains as "Testing in the wild has found 8k max record sizes give a good balance of low latency and throughput." Most TLS libraries default to about 16k.

> The client and server can use the "Maximum fragment length" extension to negotiate a different fragment length. Lowering the fragment length can improve latency, since each individual record will be faster to process (see s2n_connection_prefer_low_latency). Raising the fragment length can improve throughput, since fewer records will need to be processed (see s2n_connection_prefer_throughput).

Author: The audience here is devs, not users, but links will probably still help.

Changing the fragment length changes how s2n-tls constructs records, but does NOT change how it parses records. s2n-tls will accept record payloads that exceed the negotiated maximum fragment length. Historically TLS implementations have not always respected the negotiated maximum fragment length, so rejecting oversized records could lead to compatibility issues with older TLS libraries.

### Dynamic Record Sizes

s2n-tls also supports a feature where the fragment size starts small and grows to the maximum over a specified period of time. See "s2n_connection_set_dynamic_record_threshold".

## Sending Application Data

To send application data, the customer calls "s2n_send". See the customer-facing usage guide. But when the customer calls s2n_send, what actually happens?

### s2n_sendv and s2n_sendv_with_offset

> This document will only refer to "s2n_send", but also covers the other send methods. The methods only differ in interface and user experience. "s2n_send" and "s2n_sendv" are just wrappers around "s2n_sendv_with_offset".

Author: These are dev docs, not usage docs. I've added a comment noting that you need to read the usage guide before reading this doc.

### The out buffer

A record is staged in the `out` buffer before being written to the network. Both the headers and the payloads are written to `out`, so it contains complete records. The records are encrypted in-place.

By default, `out` is allocated to the maximum record size given the maximum fragment size, so can only contain a single record at a time. This can be configured: see [Multi-record send](#multi-record-send) below.

### The initial send attempt

The first time the application attempts to send a given chunk of data, the basic process is fairly simple. s2n-tls will break the data into fragments, copy each fragment into the `out` buffer with a record header, encrypt the record, and send the record over the network.

> However, if sending any of the records over the network fails, then the call to s2n_send will need to be retried.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, if sending any of the records over the network fails, then the user will need to call s2n_send again.
```
Just want to make it clear that we(s2n-tls) do not retry the send call. We just report back what we successfully sent and it is the users responsibility to call s2n_send again.

### Tracking data sent

> To avoid re-sending data already sent when retrying, s2n-tls tracks how much of the currently requested application data has already been sent with the "current_user_data_consumed" field on the connection. 

Reviewer: I wonder if it would be more clear to say
""
```suggestion
s2n-tls tracks how much of the application data has already been consumed per s2n_send call with the "current_user_data_consumed" field on the connection, given that a partial send could occur.
```

> To avoid re-sending data already sent when retrying, s2n-tls tracks how much of the currently requested application data has already been sent with the "current_user_data_consumed" field on the connection. 

Reviewer: How does the user know when to re-try calling s2n_send with updated buffers, versus retry calling s2n_send with the same buffers?

Like let's say the user tried to send 100 bytes, s2n-tls broke that into 4 records and only sent 2 and then got blocked. The user needs to call s2n_send again, right? But there would be no reason to update the buffers since s2n_send already consumed all of the user's data.

I'm guessing this would never happen, but I'm not sure why... 😖
